---
title: 3 new PRL papers !
contact: quentin.glorieux@lkb.upmc.fr
image: prl.png
layout: post
---
## 3 New papers from the group accepted in PRL in one month.

We are happy to announce that three new papers from the group have been accepted in Physical Review Letters.
- The paper of Kevin Falque on *Polariton Fluids as Quantum Field Theory Simulators on Tailored Curved Spacetimes*. It can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.01392). In this work, we have recreated curved spacetime in the lab using a fluid of light, mimicking conditions near black holes. By shaping how light flows, we observed key features like negative energy modes: an essential step toward testing phenomena such as Hawking radiation in a controlled setting.

- The paper of Clara Piekarski on *Spin and density modes in a binary fluid of light*. It can be found [here](https://doi.org/10.1103/s58b-3mmx). In this work, we reported the experimental observation of spin and density modes in a binary mixture of superfluids of light. A miscible Bose-Bose mixture with repulsive interactions is realized by propagating the two circular polarization components of a laser through a nonlinear hot atomic vapor in the paraxial limit. By controlling the intensity and phase of both polarizations, we selectively excite the fundamental modes of the mixture. Using a Bragg-like spectroscopy technique, we measure the dispersion relation and identify two distinct branches with different sound velocities, corresponding to the spin and density modes. 

- The paper of Myrann Baker on *Observation of Jones-Roberts solitons in a paraxial quantum fluid of light*. It can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08383). In this work, using a fluid of light flowing through hot rubidium vapor, we observe Jones-Roberts solitons: exotic shapes born from vortex pairs morphing into waves and back again. 